# Related work from thesis

## A Road Condition Classifier via Lock Embedded IMU on Dock- Less Shared Bikes
Peng et al. describe in their work, "A Road Condition Classifier via Lock Embedded IMU on Dock- Less Shared Bikes" a method to analyze the condition of the roads with high accuracy and a low amount of training data. The researches equipped Dock-less Shared Bikes of two different companies with a small microcontroller connected to an Intertial measurement Unit. The bikes used for the test are of two different models, but they have a similar construction and frame size. The microcontroller is embedded in the lock of the bikes, which is positioned near the rear wheel. As a data basis, a total of 10 training rides and ten validation rides were recorded and labeled by 20 different cyclists with the two types of bicycles. The three surface types asphalt, pebble path, or bumpy path, serve as possible labels. The Accelerometer and gyroscope data that is collected through the IMU is classified in four steps. First of all, the ride is calibrated and rotated. For this purpose, the average values for the accelerometers and gyroscopes are determined for an entire ride and taken as the standard value by which the data is rotated and calibrated. The calibrated data are then divided into sections using the sliding-window approach. The sections are then transformed into feature vectors, consisting of mean, median, standard deviation, max, min, skewness, curiosity, slope sign change, mean of frequency and median frequency, which are finally classified with the linear discriminators analysis. This method results in an accuracy of 95.3 when classifying the validation data [Peng et al., 2019, p. 4](). To what extent these results can be transferred to other data, e.g, with other types of bicycles, has not been investigated. The results should be viewed with caution, as relatively few trips with few users were used. As the bicycle's influencing factors in this experiment are quasi constant due to the very similar construction of the test bikes used, one could conclude that the cyclist's remaining influencing factors can be compensated by the calibration, rotation, or training of the classifier.

## On the Analysis of Road Surface Conditions Using Embedded Smartphone Sensors
The Paper Alqudah and Sababha [2017]() deals with the classification of the surface condition of the road using smartphone sensor data in cars. For evaluation, GPS, accelerometer, and gyroscope and magnetometer are determined using a smartphone app. The smartphone is placed on the dashboard of the car while driving with the display facing upwards. The data of the acceleration data is analyzed using the moving variance. However, this is not meaningful, as the deflections depend on the speed of the vehicle. To overcome this challenge, data from several trips that overlap are aligned using the pynamic Time warping algorithm, and an average value is calculated. This leads to a reliable detection, which was evaluated against known anomalies of a test road.

## 2.2.3. YKOB: Participatory Sensing-Based Road Condition Monitoring Using Smartphones Worn by Cyclist
YKOB (Your Kinetic Observation Bike) is a smartphone-based system for detecting the surface condition of bicycle paths. In contrast to other approaches, Takahashi et al. [2017]() do not determine a direct score but has aprocedure in which the Smartphones IMU signals are processed so that only the raw signal of the surface vibration remains.
The basic idea is that the surface vibration is first transmitted as a vibration from the tire to the frame and finally to the smartphone, which can then be measured using the accelerometer. The scientists have identified two sources that overlay the raw vibration signal. The first noise source is the cyclist's movement signal, such as the movement of the legs when pedaling or the movement of the arms when steering. Assuming that these movements are statistically independent signals from the vibration, they are separated from each other using independent component analysis. If this assumption is valid, two separate signals are obtained: one from the street's vibration and one from the body movements. A second possible disturbance factor is the crossing of curbs. In order to detect and filter out these, a real mother wavelet analysis is used. For both procedures to be successful, the smartphone must be worn by the cyclist. Only the curb detection was evaluated. The tests were carried out with data collected from a total of 80 cyclists and 640 samples. An accuracy of 68% was determined [Takahashi et al., 2017, p. 11]().

